# Lab Report: Multisensory Reading

#### Lilly Wilcox

## Process Description

In this lab, we attempted to identify and read different forms of multisensory reading technologies. We used our hands to feel 3D printed models of historical typefaces that were created for blind readers. The texts were hidden from our sight and we recorded our observations about the different texts as we felt the pieces. The pieces incorporated images and used different multisensory fonts, some of which I was able to identify and some of which I wasn’t. After we experienced all of the texts without being able to see them, we looked at the pieces and compared our observations.

## Observations

When feeling the different pieces that were written with raised roman letter, I was able to identify a few words, but it was challenging to distinguish between different lines of type and keep track of where I was in any given line. The distance between lines and between words varied, and I found it easier to identify words that were surrounded by more negative space, but harder to move between lines in this case. Because of the negative space it was easier to stray too far up or down the page when looking for the next word. The piece in moon type eliminated this struggle because of the boustrophedon style and the parenthesis-shaped markings. However, because I didn’t know the moon type alphabet, I couldn’t understand any of the words. 

I was able to recognize the image of the lunar eclipse because I remembered the image from the reading, but I wasn’t able to recognize the snowflake images without having a preconceived image in my head. I don’t think that feeling an image was a particularly good way of understanding it, especially in the case of the snowflakes. Because the negative space was so limited, it was hard to distinguish between the different branches of the image. This was an interesting contrast to our discussion Morse’s Geography. In that case, images were discussed in words, which for a sighted reader made things more challenging; however, based on our observations in this lab, describing an image in words might be easier to understand for a blind reader.


## Analysis

I think that the idea of universal accessibility is tricky to balance because the intention is right, but the execution is often challenging. It’s interesting to compare the rise of Boston Line Type and Braille with this mindset. The intention of Howe when he created Boston Line type ties into this quote from Hendren’s piece: “’Assistive technology’ implies a separate species of tools designed exclusively for people with a rather narrow set of diagnostic “impairments” — impairments in other words, that have been culturally designated as needing special attention, as being particularly, grossly abnormal.” Howe’s intention to create a typeface that was readable by both blind and sighted readers is commendable; he did not view his typeface as assistive technology in the way that it is defined by Hendren. In some ways he succeeded – when interacting with the text in this lab that was written in Boston Line Type, I was able to make out words by feeling them – however, it wasn’t the most effective way of non-sighted reading. 

As described in the 99% Invisible reading, Boston Line Type “letterforms are not unique enough from each other,” says Hudson, “sighted people look at braille and they go, ‘oh it all looks the same.’ But under the finger, those raised dots are just more tangible.” Braille works better because it was developed by blind readers by a blind person. The intention of Howe’s system eventually was overshadowed by the efficacy of Braille’s system. At first, I thought this might serve as an argument against Hendren’s piece, however I don’t think that she argues for universal accessibility or against assistive technology. She simply argues that assistive technology is not only beneficial for folks with disabilities, and we have a distorted perspective of disability. 

Working with Boston Line Type expanded my perspective on different technologies and helped me to better understand Hendren’s arguments. I think that it is important to create technologies that are assistive to folks with disabilities, and it is important to not think of what we consider “able-bodied” as the norm. In doing so, we limit innovation that could help all kinds of people. I think that Boston Line Type was important because of Howe’s attempt to normalize and respect blindness, but it was limiting in that it assumed that sighted reading was the default.
