# Lab Report: Archive

#### Lilly Wilcox

## Process Description

Our Archive lab took place over two days, the first at the Northeastern Archive in Snell, and the second at the Massachusetts Historical Society. In Snell, I looked at a number of the books in the Archive, but I spent most of my time with *Briefe von der Elektricität*, a German translation of Benjamin Franklin’s book on electricity. We also looked at contemporary artist books that the University houses. When we went to the MHS, we learned first about how one does research in their library, and then we looked at a number of historical texts, many of which centered around the theme of children’s literature. When looking at texts, I tried to think about the obvious material aspects of codices but also the implications of their content. I think that old books are a fascinating marker of moments in history, so I really enjoyed that aspect of this lab, but looking at bookmaking ingenuity with the artist books was something unfamiliar and exciting to me. 

## Observations

I came to the Snell Archive immediately from my German class, and so I was very excited to look at a German artifact. This copy of *Briefe von der Elektricität* was published in 1758 and was printed in black letter type. Its uniformity made it seem like a printed object, but I had never encountered a printed object in Fraktur. Until we talked about the object as a group, I was not sure whether it was print or manuscript. It’s interesting to think about the prevalence of printed Fraktur in Germany and how it might signify German values. Fraktur to me is harder to read, but I haven’t been trained to read it because it is so uncommon. Fraktur also seems antiquated to me, but it could be interpreted as traditional and distinctly German. 

I enjoyed looking at the artist books as well, however, I wouldn’t call all of them books. The boundless book and the matchbox are the two that I looked at that challenged me the most. My issue with the two of them is that books are meant to be read, and hopefully relatively easily. With these two, it is impossible to read the contents without destroying the object itself. They might contain stories, but because of their lack of readability I wouldn’t label them as books. This experience showed me that I really value the codex form because of its accessibility, and I struggle to think of anything beyond a codex as a book.

I loved looking at the map of Boston at the Massachusetts Historical Society. Before seeing the map in person along with the engraving plate (even if it wasn’t the correct plate), I hadn’t really understood how an engraving would work. Seeing the impressions of the plate on the map just connected the dots for me. It was also cool to think about the map as time marker of Boston history. Learning about the history of Back Bay as an early “planned community” and the general social and political development of Boston as a city provided me with a new connection to the city. 


## Analysis

One thing that really stuck with me about the Cushman reading was the idea of the use text and language as political. Cushman discusses Sequoyah’s intentional use of English or Cherokee in speech and writing, and the development of the Cherokee syllabary “as political acts of perseverance” (Cushman 68-69). I noticed this theme of resistance in the artist book that showed years without armed conflict in a type of graph. This piece made its political point through a chart, rather than language or written text, but it proved once again that deliberate choices are political. In this case, the artist book demonstrated the scope of armed conflict by choosing to graph her point. The year kept getting later and later as I unfolded pages, and because of the density and length of the piece, I nearly missed the one year that was marked as without armed conflict. Media makes discourse possible, and the deliberate choice of medium influences the receivers’ perception of the author’s point. 

The Mak reading focused on the visuality of the page as integral to the understanding of the text itself. She explains that “The page is an expressive space for text, space, and image; it is a cultural artefact; it is a technological device” (18). Both the map and Mother Goose in Hieroglyphics from the Massachusetts Historical Society embody the ideas in this quote. In the case of the map, the object is pretty obviously a technological device, but it is a cultural artifact in that it shows how a society physically looked at a particular point in time. It uses text to supplement and explain image. It explores the literal space of a city on a page. *Mother Goose in Hieroglyphics* blends text and images literally, using the two interchangeably to complete sentences. It explores how a reader understands content level meaning and meaning based on non-traditional form. It is a teaching tool, and an artifact that remembers a momentary fascination with hieroglyphics. I find that there is a lot of truth to Mak’s argument based on this lab.

When reading the Gleik piece on early dictionaries, I had the thought, “I've always thought that it would be easier to understand many nouns through images. Cawdrey ran into a problem with nouns and decided to mark words with the letter ‘k’ when they are too specific to be defined.” I saw this thought represented in *Mother Goose in Hieroglyphics*. The way that images and texts were combined into one sentence might have allowed early readers form associations with what something was and how it sounded. I would argue that an association between word and image in this situation is more important than the association with a word and its definition. Of course, this becomes complicated by the fact that the book used an image of an eye to represent “I,” and I wonder if this association would make things more difficult for modern readers. The availability of the combination of image and text allowed for the creation of new teaching methods for early readers. 
