# Lab Report: Illumination

#### Lilly Wilcox

## Process Description

In this lab, we spent shy of half an our practicing writing by candlelight. There was a candle between every two seats, and each seat had a photocopy of an old letter or other piece of text written in script for each person to transcribe. Personally, I had a manuscript of a speech on the art of speaking by Frederick Douglass. I quickly got into the groove of copying my piece and finished the lab early. While the low light and unfamiliar script made the process difficult, I was able to read through and copy all of the text, which I was rather proud of. 

After this process, we looked at different copies of Morse's Geography to consider the variation of quality and content of the books. The texts that I looked at were printed in 1820 and 1826. Despite being geography books, neither of the two I looked at were printed with images. We discussed the history of Morse's Geography as a text and as a codex, and why they varied so much. Printing was about making money and to do so, images were cut to cut costs, and piracy of texts was common. Illumination - as in imagery - was a luxury on top of the luxury of the book itself. 

## Observations

When I read that this lab was called "Illumination" I was not expecting it to literally be about Illumination. Based on the readings that we did, I expected that we would look at different methods of creating images or printing in color. The link between the two concepts due to the word "illumination" is something I'd never considered before. To illuminate a space with candlelight is to bring color to a dark room, and to illuminate a page with ink is to bring color to dark text. The processes are named similarly for a reason. 

Because of the modern convenience of light, I would never think of illumnation in its most literal sense, if I just heard the word. In the age of electricity, we take light so much for granted, and I really enjoyed the experience of working by candlelight to break out of that mindset. This class has really forced me to think about systems and processes of writing and how multiple technologies, outside of what I would traditionally think of as technologies, have had to come together to create the modern writing experience. Light itself is essential to the writing process, whether that be the candlelight that illuminates the page, or the background light of my keyboard that lets me see the keys in the dark. While the two ideas are essentially the same, the physical aspect of writing has changed so much. 

I found myself daydreaming about writing pre-electricity after doing this lab. Generally, I feel so far removed from that process in an era dominated by digital writitng; writing by candlelight seems so romantic to me. I think that Leah Price has tried to warn us of this kind of attitude, but as I try not to take Illumination for granted, I can't help but look back on the past in a bit of a dreamy way. 

## Analysis

When reading *The Marriage of Heaven and Hell* in advance of this class, I focused on the dichotomy of Heaven and Hell and how it was represented textually. Particularly, in the seemingly random scribbles that followed lines, the Blakes created images that represented the so-called "marriage." These somewhat unpredictable, authentic drawings that were printed make the book a kind of marriage between two mediums - manuscript and print. Borsuk writes about the work of the Blakes "Uniting manuscript tradition and mechanical reproduction, Blake’s technique allowed for a more calligraphic writing style and a harmony between reading and looking, rather than relegating text and image to separate pages." I feel as if our lab worked in a similar way to create a harmony between manuscript and print. While we were working with written text, our ability to do so was still dependent upon the ability to reprint (albeit digitally) the handwritten notes themselves. When building on reading and writing tradition as developed and complex as it currently is, harmonies are intrinsic to the materiality of text. 

Borsuk argues that Blake merged two ideas - illumuniation and printing - to create a new method of bookmaking called "Illuminated Printing." Taking these words out of the context of Blake and looking at the phrase at face value, I would argue that what we did in class - writing by candlelight - is also illuminated printing. Blake's works and our reproductions are, of course, very different products, but in my mind, the processes have more similarities than one would initially notice. 

One thing that struck me about Blake was that he referred to his method as "infernal," using an intentionally fiery word to describe a process with which he was frustrated. The process of writing by candlelight is also infernal. There is an actual fire lit, and because of that a huge danger to the work itself is posed. The candles flickered while I was working, which worried me. In a room when everyone was elbow to elbow and hyperfocused on the task at hand, there was great potential for a candle to fall and ruin our attempts to create something new. Blake worried about the infernal nature of the acid that he had to use, and the "signs of trouble" represented by bubbling acid that could destroy his illustration (Viscomi). Writing and creation has an air of danger around it when using these two methods. Diligence is a must. 

Additionally, the two different styles of illumniation attempt to broaden the net of acessibility of the texts. While of course, Blake's illustrated books were luxuries, the illustrations were attempts to broaden its reader's understandings of the text. In this case, accessibility is not about those who can access the book itself, but the extent to which those who have access are able to understand the book. Writing by candlelight approches accessibility in the opposite way. Reading hours are increased by candlelight, and those who cannot afford to spend daylight hours in the company of text now have means to read by night. The breadth, rather than the depth, of accessbility is increased in this case. To me, illumnation in the literal sense and the textual sense are linked in many ways beyond the word choice. 

