# Reading Prep: Image

#### Lilly Wilcox

## Questions or Observations

1. *The Marriage of Heaven and Hell* is framed by a dichotomy because of the title. On the fourth page, through the voice of the devil, this dichotomy is reinforced when the reader learns about the contrast between good and evil, and the body and the soul. I noticed that the concept of "the dichotomy" was represented in many of the simpler "illuminations" in addition to the illustrations. For example, on the tenth page, following the line that begins with "Sooner murder an infant" one stick figure-like character seems to be trying to break away from the other, representing the conflict between good and evil. When I began reading this piece, I found these little illuminations to be distracting from the textual content, but once I noticed that they were deliberate, and not just scribbles, I appreciated the attention to the theme of the piece. 
2. This quote from the conclusion of "Illuminated Printing" stood out to me: "The dramatic increase in price reflects a change in Blake's idea of the book—from books of poems to series of hand-colored prints, from prints as pages to prints as paintings." If I were looking at *The Marriage of Heaven and Hell* outside of the context of this class, I would never have guessed that it was a printed work. Blake essentially handwrote or handdrew each aspect of the plates used for printing, so I would call it a work of art. How does the value of labor change based on the percieved media with which one works?
3. I liked the argument Borsuk made for the harmonius representation of text and image in The Marriage of Heaven and Hell. In "Illuminated Printing" Viscomi describes that "the conventional illustrated book was the product of much divided labor." Divided labor seems to mean that the process of printing text couldn't be a work of art. Blake successfully united text and image in a revolutionary way, redefining the idea of the book as a work of art. I agree that his piece is harmonious; the integration of the text and image make the two apsects undifferentiable *The Marriage of Heaven and Hell*. 
